
The Mathematics and Computer Science (MCS) Division of Argonne National
                      Laboratory invites outstanding candidates to apply for a postdoctoral position in
                      the area of enabling technologies for software interoperability among toolkits
                      used in the solution of large-scale distributed-memory PDE-based applications.
                      Of particular interest for this project is research into the abstractions and
                      interfaces required to enable interoperability with a number of different mesh
                      management packages. We are especially interested in interfaces that address
                      complementary functionalities and that would allow the user to "plug and play"
                      with different meshes, solvers, partitioners, and visualization tools.

                      The successful candidate will perform basic research in softwareinteroperability
                      techniques targeted toward state-of-the-art numericaltool packages within the
                      ALICE framework (for more information on the ALICE project see
                      http://www.mcs.anl.gov/alice ). This work will support a number of ongoing
                      application projects, particularly our joint ASCI ASAP project with University of
                      Chicago to model astrophysical thermonuclear flashes on neutron stars. In
                      addition, the successful candidate will have access to state-of-the-art computing
                      and visualization facilities including an 80-node IBM SP supercomputer and a
                      128-processor SGI Origin with 12 reality engine pipes running a CAVE
                      immersive visualization environment and several ImmersaDesks.

                      We seek candidates with expertise in one or more of the following
                      areas: software interoperability mechanisms, parallel mesh management
                      techniques, and the solution of large-scale applications on distributed-memory
                      computers. In addition, experience with object-oriented programming paradigms
                      and software architecture design is desired. Candidates must have a Ph.D. in
                      computer science, applied mathematics, or an engineering discipline and have
                      received their Ph.D. not more than three years prior to the beginning of the
                      appointment. The appointment is available immediately and is for a one-year term
                      (renewable).

                      Argonne is located in the southwestern Chicago suburbs, offering the advantages
                      of affordable housing, good schools, and easy access to the cultural attractions of
                      the city. 

                      Resumes should be addressed to 

                                                Sue Walker
                                               Box mcs-alice
                                          Employment and Placement
                                          Argonne National Laboratory
                                            9700 S. Cass Avenue
                                             Argonne, IL 60439

                      and must include a statement of research goals and the names and addresses of
                      three references. For additional information or to submit resumes electronically,
                      please contact Lori Freitag (630-252-7246; freitag@mcs.anl.gov ) or to submit
                      resumes electronically, please send e-mail to griffin@mcs.anl.gov .

                      Argonne is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer. 
