
  Goal: 

Maintain long term, sustained financial support for the PETSc team by
making PETSc a crucial component of several distinct, high profile,
computational science projects (HPCSP).

  Approach:

Fund PETSc consultants who work closely with the HPCSPs to ensure that
they take full advantage of the power of PETSc.  These PETSc
consultants would be part of the PETSc team, not the HPCSP, and will
mainly contribute additional code and functionality to PETSc, though,
as needed, they may also work directly on the application codes. Each
consultant would at most interact with two or three HPCSPs.

  Background: 

Several large-scale computational science projects, including both DP
ASCI and ASCI Level I and II projects, are very interested in using
PETSc as a major part of their application codes. However, these teams
often lack the computer science expertise and knowledge of PETSc to
really use PETSc effectively. One group has even offered funding to
implement into PETSc a Finite Element Interface designed around their
application class. Currently we must refuse such assignments, since
we simply don't have the people power with the right expertise to
accomplish the tasks effectively. This type of work is NOT appropriate
for Post-docs looking to go onto academic research careers, nor summer 
students available only for a few months. Continuity is important for 
these relationships.

  Proposal: 

Fund one full time PETSc consult, who we would recruit from the ranks of
the PETSc users, to work for Lois providing PETSc consulting support and 
adding functionality, etc to PETSc. This person would play a role very 
similar to that of Satish Balay, who is the PETSc consultant who supports
the ACTI development effort at UT Austin.

  Funding Sources: 

Propose to use PACI and U of C ASCI funding to boot-strap the position
for 2 years, this would be supplemented by funding received directly
from certain consulting tasks. The long term goal would be to have the
position self-supporting.

  Why ANL?: 

The PETSc team has developed an enormously valuable set of software tools
for high-end scientific computing involving the numerical solution of 
PDEs. The team also has expertise in applying the tools to specific application
problems. However, the use of the software on non-trivial problems requires
the concentrated time and effort the current PETSc team is only able to apply
to a very small set of applications. The software and techniques are too 
specialized and "research oriented" to be commercialized at this time, nor does
any commercial company have the appropriately trained staff to provide the
consulting services.

  Job Description:

The PETSc team is looking to hire software consultants who will work
closely with two or three specific computational science project teams
in their use of PETSc. The work will consist of guiding the usage of
PETSc for the project and adding functionality, optimizations, etc to
PETSc as required by the particular computational science projects.
All consultants will be part of the PETSc team, they will travel
occasionally to work with the computational science project teams
directly as needed.

The candidate should have a Masters or Ph.D. in computer science, applied 
mathematics or a related discipline with a strong background in numerical 
computing. Experience with Unix or Windows 95/NT and C or C++ is mandatory,
experiences with
- PETSc,
- parallel computing,
- MPI, and
- a large scale computational science project involving PDEs (or sparse linear algebra)
are desirable. This is NOT a post-doctoral position leading to an
independent research career, rather it is intended for those individuals who
enjoy working in a team, tackling difficult computational science problems using
the latest in computer science and mathematical algorithms and developing code
that will be used in a variety of codes around the world.